This directory contains the full workflow for a molecular dynamics simulation of water confined between graphene sheets. The system was prepared by placing graphene layers in a periodic box and adding water molecules in the region between them. The setup allows the study of confined water behavior, surface interactions and changes in structure or diffusion near the graphene interface.

Folder Structure

inputfiles
Contains the graphene coordinates, topology files, water configuration and any restraint or force field files used during system preparation.

MDP
Includes all parameter files used for energy minimization, NVT, NPT and production simulations. These files define the integrator, cutoffs, temperature and pressure control settings.

1-em
Stores the outputs of the energy minimization step. This stage removes steric clashes and relaxes the initial configuration before dynamics.

2-equi
Contains the NVT and NPT equilibration outputs. These runs stabilize the system temperature, pressure and box dimensions and prepare the system for production dynamics.

3-prod
Contains the final production simulation data, including trajectories, final structures, energy files and logs. These files are used for analyzing water behavior under confinement.

analysis
Reserved for any post-processing results, such as density profiles, diffusion calculations, structural order parameters or visualization files.
How to Regenerate Trajectories (.xtc)

If the xtc trajectory file is not included, it can be generated by rerunning the final tpr file using GROMACS version apps/gromacs/2024.2.

For this version:

gmx mdrun -deffnm md -v

This will recreate md.xtc, md.trr and other standard output files.

If you are using a different GROMACS version, first generate a new tpr and then run mdrun.

gmx grompp -f mdp/md.mdp -c results/npt.gro -p input/topol.top -o md.tpr

gmx mdrun -deffnm md -v

How to Use

Review input/ for system setup files. Check mdp/ for parameter settings. Explore results/ for final structures, logs and regenerated trajectories. Add any new scripts to scripts/ if the workflow is extended.
